9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, sitting here at
Hong Kong. You're watching the China
show. I'm Yvonne Man. We're trying now
in the open of markets in greater China.
Our top story this morning, Asian stocks
trading cautiously as investors rein in
risk ahead of release of the key US data
including that November jobs report. And
China's weak economic numbers prompting
a debate on its policy path next year.
State media playing up Xi Jinping's call
to boost domestic demand and warning
against chasing quote reckless GDP
expansion. Also ahead, China Evergrande
sweetens the terms of its request to
delay a bond payment after creditors
rejected its initial proposal. And
President Trump says a deal to end
Russia's war in Ukraine is closer than
ever as Washington offers more security
guarantees to Kyiv.
Well, happy Tuesday morning to you. Of
course, we are still tracking the last
full trading week of 2025 and we're
still talking about things a bit in the
back foot here. We're going to talk
about stocks, bonds as well as the
dollar has been losing steam of late and
you continue that for a second day here
in Asia. You take a look at what's going
on in the Nikkei and the KOSPI. We're
seeing declines of more than 1%. Uh
Taiwan is coming online and we are also
seeing that same amount of pressure on
some of these sort of tech heavy
benchmarks here this morning. So that AI
trade still very much in question.
Traders though basically are are on
hold. If you take a look at the bond
market is doing uh in the lead up to the
run up to this whole November jobs
report coming out in the US. So it is a
bit stale. There is some concern about
data quality given this is kind of a
catch-up from that government shutdown,
but this is certainly the first sort of
relevant and relatively current sort of
set of data since that government
shutdown. So uh that is going to be
taking center stage here as well. The
bond market has been pretty range bound
of late though. You still see that US
10-year yield just slightly higher about
1 4.16% as well, but that dollar
weakness does persist. We continue to
see that when it comes to the greenback
here. Take a look at dollar yen. We're
still can see is that strength there
breaking below that 155 handle right
now. I think you have the likes of
Nomura saying that Tankan survey
yesterday, yeah, basically was the nail
in the coffin here. That the perhaps
Japanese companies are now ready for
that BOJ hike. If you add that to some
of the wage data that we've seen of late
as well. That really kind of adds to the
case of whether that this November jobs
report is going to change the whole
narrative here whether the Fed can
continue to ease in 2026. Gold were
halting sort of this five-day rally so
far. We're steady when it comes to gold
as well as silver here.
Also checking copper prices given the
run-up that we've seen pretty steady
here so far. It's really been Bitcoin
that continues to have that sort of
bearish turn, right? We're sliding
deeper into bear market here and
breaking below 86,000, which is perhaps
the lowest level we've seen
in about two weeks as well. So, that
certainly is going to be something that
leads to maybe more
of a bearish signal for markets here
right now. Cuz you know, given what even
markets other markets are rebounding,
Bitcoin has not. So, we continue to
watch of course how that correlation
does fare. Overnight in China though, we
take a look at how the ADRs and some of
these tech plays in the US played out.
It was not pretty, right? Golden Dragon
China index was down about 2% there.
That's the biggest move we've seen to
downside here in about three weeks or
so. You saw that in the crane shares of
these ETFs in the US, and you saw really
big moves to downside for Baidu, Alibaba
as well. We'll see how that, you know,
boats for the China market here today,
but likely to see a bit of pressure
here.
Take a look at what we see when it comes
to
futures. We're lower by about a tenth of
1% here right now. Chinese 10-year yield
is at 1.85, but yes, in the face of all
that, you still have a stronger RMB,
right? So, breaking below 7.05 is
certainly is quite significant in the
face of this dollar weakness. But again,
there's a lot of debate a rare debate
really on the currency and really how
strong policy makers are willing to let
it go. So, so that's going to be one
thing on our agenda here today, that
yuan strength, whether it persists as
well. Of course, the fixings of late
have been sort of, you know, strong,
strong, and then maybe halting some of
the strength that we've seen uh in the
currency. We do have a listing debut uh
here in Hong Kong today. We're talking
about Guoxia Technology. Uh also,
Wanhua, right? We talked about our
sources telling us they've added a bit
of sort of details in how to sweeten
this deal after, of course, bondholders
there failed uh or at least did not
approve, didn't get that 90% approval
last week. Rare earth stocks could be
quite moving here today, I guess, or
quite influential given that interview
that we did with the European Commission
saying that they have seen China start
granting some of these licenses for rare
earth. We'll bring you that interview
throughout the show here. And of course,
we're going to wrap up the day with some
jobs data out of Hong Kong. But really,
what's been going on it is we're still
kind of digesting
what people are calling a pretty ugly
November data dump that we saw yesterday
out of China. And you're starting to see
that be reflected in some of the state
media uh and what we're seeing as
dominating the news coverage of late,
right? And And you're hearing it from
the top. President Xi and his call to
boost consumption is in focus today. A
really a day after I got that, you know,
we saw that activity data show the
economy remained under pressure. This is
from the party's journal, Qiushi, and
other state-run papers published
speeches that the president made over
the past decade on this very subject.
And Xi is quoted as saying that boosting
domestic demand is a strategic move.
Let's get more now from our China
correspondent, Mandy Lo, who's been kind
of deciphering all these sort of
comments from the president. And And
what is it telling you?
>> Yeah, I think first of all, the timing
is very interesting coming on the day
just right after we got the ugly
November data. As you said, retail sales
was at the weakest that we had seen
since COVID. Fixed asset investment were
set for the first annual decline since
1998. And state media now saying that
they are publishing this set of speeches
or uh paragraphs and quotes of what Xi
has said about boosting domestic demand
over the past 10 years. Uh and it shows
you that China has been looking at
boosting domestic demand for a long
time. And there are a couple of things I
want to point out that I think bears
reminding. One is that he said back in
2015, 2016, he said, "Demand-side
management emphasizes short-term
adjustments, uh regulating taxes, fiscal
and monetary policy, but supply-side
management addresses the structural
issues, the long-term issues." And in
another year, he said that boosting
domestic demand is not about boosting
government spending. He says, "It's
about uh institutional arrangements to
to change uh or to guide consumption,
investment, and savings." And I think
what this tells you is that first of
all, China has been thinking about
boosting domestic demand for the past 10
years. It's a long-term goal. It's not
necessarily something that they want to
boost urgently at the expense of more
spending and more debt. Um it's all all
about structural reform, supply-side
reform, boosting private investment. And
I think this could maybe uh quell some
of the concerns or speculations as to
why China has not shown any signals that
it's going to put out bold short-term
stimulus.
>> Yeah, it's all about that rebalancing.
Um when it comes to you know, chasing
this sort of reckless that he you know,
he called it reckless GDP expansion.
He talked a lot about, you know, the
overinvestment that we might be seeing
in very certain, you know, uh crowded
sort of industries.
>> Yes.
>> Uh what do you what more do you say
about that?
>> Yeah, this is also interesting because
he actually made this speech back during
the Central Economic Work Conference,
but it's only just being released now by
state media. And I think it's surprising
because the language was very sharp and
direct. And he talked about how
officials shouldn't be recklessly
spending
um and uh that the government is going
to clamp down on vanity projects that
are meant to bolster a politician's
resume. He said that uh the assessment
of how well a politician has performed
should not be just based on short-term
GDP growth, but how solid a foundation
they have laid down for long-term
sustainability and people's livelihoods.
Uh and he gave some examples of
wrongdoings including excessively large
development zones, uh exhibitions that
are uh seeing disorderly expansion. He
talked about fake construction starts,
uh inflated uh uh
statistics as well. And he said
basically China needs to embark on real
and genuine growth that is not
exaggerated. And he noted the decline in
fixed asset investment. And he urged
officials to remain calm, not to make
wasteful but uh investments that would
lead to a project being abandoned as
soon as they are completed. Um and I
think it tells you two things. One is
that the government is more cautious
about their spending, right? especially
given that they had just made some
progress around tackling the hidden
government debt. And number two, I think
China is also giving more signals that
it's prepared to lower its targets on on
growth, right? it's willing to sacrifice
the quantity of growth for better
quality growth.
>> All right, Mim thank you. Mim Lo, our
China correspondent really helping us
break down what this all means. Uh and
we did a little bit, you know, certainly
as it did move markets in some ways,
right? You take a look at how the
strength of the currency is one thing
we're tracking. Consumer names also were
actually moving in some ways uh in the
face of some of these comments as well.
Another story that we're tracking of
course this morning as traders are
looking ahead to the US data due later
which includes of November's jobs
report, right? Let's bring in our
executive editor for Asian markets Paul
Dobson. He joins us from Singapore.
Paul, uh before I get I get to the jobs
report, that what we've been talking
about in China has been you know,
the the economy is not firing on all
cylinders as as we count down to 2025
and it could make for a pretty
challenging 2026 and the market seems to
be
somewhat sensitive to that sort of
headline now.
Are we in for more weakness in these
Chinese markets now?
>> I don't think that that's a a foregone
conclusion if I'm because I do think
that the market really likes the
uh the growth stories that we have
within China in terms of tech, in terms
of AI, in terms of infrastructure
build-out as well and that's been, you
know, kind of helping us stay on side
despite the weakness in the domestic
economy. Also, exports have been holding
up relatively well albeit coming under
some pressure in the in the second half
of the year, but much better than we
would have fared when it was in April
time and we were talking about the big
tariffs and then that ratcheting of
tensions with the US. In fact, actually
the relations with the US seems to be in
a little bit of a truce at the moment.
So, that's another positive for for the
market. So, I think that that domestic
demand picture is is almost a secondary
consideration when you have those other
uh things going on in the background and
and the market tends to have a pretty
positive slant particularly on mainland
stocks at the moment, but on the on the
Chinese market overall. So, I think, you
know, we Yes, there's going to be some
bumpy patches
um the US trade session overnight uh for
example, but but the general
you know, the feeling behind everything
is that there's still that a little bit
of a sense of optimism and I think if
you combine that with continuing yuan
appreciation, which it seems uh to be,
you know, on a very steady path higher
at the moment, um then maybe that points
to a more optimistic framing for markets
than there is for uh the economic data.
>> Yeah, I mean, it's interesting. I love
that story that, you know, you guys laid
out about
it it's basically they're facing all
these calls of a very sort of rare
debate about the currency and and how
strong it has to be to help with this
sort of transition and rebalancing of
the economy to boost the domestic demand
picture. What are you hearing in terms
of, you know, the tolerance that
policymakers have for a stronger RMB?
>> That's right. It seems that there's
definitely a debate out there about how
how much further to let it go. I mean,
remember this year, yes, the yuan is
stronger against the dollar, but overall
on a sort of basket basis is still
weaker and particularly weaker against
the euro, which is where a lot of the
Chinese exports have been headed this
year. And Europe isn't going to stand
for that forever. Probably they're going
to, you know, uh, continue to ratchet up
the rhetoric, uh, pushing back against
too much Chinese imports cuz it's
hurting European industry. So, I think
that that tension is one thing that will
allow China to, um, continue to let the
yuan appreciate. But on the other hand,
and I think that this is the really
interesting sort of longer-term
argument, is in order for China to make
that jump, actually for consumption to
grow, they need a strong yuan. So, it
discourages everything being thrown into
the export basket, everything being, you
know, put into the idea of, well, this
is the easiest way for us to make money.
We'll just keep making things that we
can sell to the rest of the world.
Rather, stronger currency, uh, means
that they can import more stuff. And
maybe the consumer feels a little bit
more confident about buying them. That
juices the economy as well. So, that's
one of the considerations the
policymakers are really weighing at the
moment as they consider whether to, um,
allow for a greater yuan appreciation,
uh, next year. Some strategists are
calling for some pretty big gains. I was
reading a note from Stephen Jen, uh, for
example, overnight looking for, uh,
going all the way down into the mid-60s,
um, over over the next year, which I
think is, um, you know, a pretty
impressive. I think he was calling a 12%
gain, something like that, against the
US dollar, which would be,
uh, you know, pretty pronounced, a
little bit surprising, but
obviously,
it's not going to be a a very rapid or
one-way move because of the way that the
the is controlled. More likely, that
kind of continuous steady appreciation
that we've been seeing for the past few
months.
>> Yeah, and as we look ahead Paul, the
market seems to be just on hold until we
get these November US jobs data figures
that come out later on tonight in Asia.
Um
I mean, how much merit should we put in
trading these these numbers given the
fact that there is a bit of a lag?
There there was a lot of concerns about
whether they can actually retroactively
collect some of the data as well.
>> Yeah, we don't have anything better to
go on. That's the problem, isn't it
everyone? And and the and the and the
Fed to be clear is very worried about
the labor market. We've seen that in
comments from Jerome Powell himself.
We've seen it from various other members
of the governing council. This is the
consideration that they're weighing at
the moment, you know, how rapidly is the
labor market deteriorating and how much
do they need to cut rates to kind of
accommodate that and offset it as well.
We've seen three insurance cuts as
they've been calling it over the past
quarter. Uh they've got an interest
rates down somewhat. Now they want to
wait data to catch up to figure out
exactly where we are in terms of that
labor market outlook. This data
according to analyst forecast would show
uh you know, uh still a pretty depressed
picture, but no rapid deterioration or
anything that would sort of cause the
kind of panic
um that would that would trigger more
rate cuts automatically, but on the flip
side of that, even Powell himself has
said maybe the data aren't very reliable
at the moment. Maybe they're miscounting
or overestimating what the jobs picture
looks like. And if you take that into
consideration, if we do have a duff
number, then maybe the market will get
uh excited about the prospect of more uh
interest rate cuts into the new year.
>> Paul, great to have you Paul Dobson
there joining us out of Singapore on
what to watch out for. Of course, the
next few hours when it comes to that
jobs report. Coming up next though,
we'll discuss the outlook for for the
Fed with UBP after Governor Stephen
Miron says underlying US inflation is
close to the Central Bank's target and
it's a nip is joining us in the next
part of this break or after this break.
We're counting of the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong. This
is the China show. Futures slightly
lower this morning.
>> There was a large bout of inflation that
resulted in an increase in prices after
the pandemic.
While American families are still
rightly distraught with that experience
and unhappy with affordability, prices
are now once again stable, albeit at
higher levels.
Policy should reflect that.
>> That was Christopher Waller, a Fed
governor, arguing for, of course, a
quicker pace of policy easing by the
central bank. He was one of the, of
course, dissents in that last meeting
calling for 50 basis points of cuts
here. Let's bring in Nizza Nip here,
head of fixed income research Asia at
UPP. She's been talking about how busy
fixed income markets have been. All here
for you. Um, as we wrap up, though,
you know, we we finally had that Fed
rate cut. It seems like there's still so
much so much debate about whether they
can continue to cut for next year. Do
you think you've got much clarity on
what next year looks like now?
>> Well, I guess, you know, um, Fed would
still need to look at, you know, the
data. Um, we reckon the labor market is
still, you know, a little bit weak. So,
we'll see, you know, what's the number
comes out tonight. Basically, we think
that in 2026 it's going to bring the
terminal rate to around like, um, 3%.
That means they potentially could have
two cuts.
Um, treasuries like, you know, for the
10-year, the curve has steepened quite a
bit, but we reckon the 10 years could be
in the range of 3.75 to 4.25. It's
because we are still in the, you know,
rate easing cycle.
>> Yeah.
>> So, is it likely to stay range-bound,
you think, in these levels?
>> Well, we reckon that it, you know, would
probably, you know, stay around that
range. Um, short end could be impacted
by, you know, number of rate cut. At the
moment, a lot of things have been
factored in, including like, you know,
how many times. Market seems to be
factoring in around like, you know, one
time. Um, but I guess, you know, that
would really depending on the data. Um,
so, that's why going forward with fixed
income need to manage the duration
because long end still subject to a lot
of volatility including for example the
fiscal budget, you know, deficit and
things like that. Yeah.
>> How do you look at the inflation
picture, right?
You know, obviously we still see
the US inflation has been above its
target for for some time. It's proven to
be quite sticky and we haven't really
quite felt the effects of tariffs just
yet. Is there a concern that we're going
to see a ramp up in inflation next year?
>> Well, in fact for our house view, um, we
reckon the inflation could be, you know,
slowing down to sort of like steady
going into 2026. It could probably reach
around like 2.5 around that area. So
that's why it won't, you know, be a
major factor for the Fed sort of like,
you know, consider. It would be a factor
but, you know, not a major but I think
they're concerned more on the labor
market itself.
>> Okay. And and the fact that the Fed is
is easing but the rest of the world
seems to be signaling at least that
there might be done correct when it
comes to their easing cycles. How does
that change the dynamics in any way?
Does it just only reinforce the dollar
weakness and really benefit this part of
the world?
>> Yeah, this is a good good question
because, you know, Fed probably would
cut again. So that's why at the moment I
think US dollar would still be weakened
but I think the weak the the pace of
weakness will not be as big as this
year. It would be sort of like a modest
weakness. So that's why for example
people could look out for some other
opportunity in the fixed income in
non-US dollar space for example like
Aussie or maybe, you know, like CNH as
well.
Um, we also reckon the CNH would
appreciate as well. So that's why it
could be something they can look at but
I think majority of the market for the
investors still looking at dollar
market.
>> They are still looking at dollar market.
>> Yes, definitely because I think the
choices outside of US dollar is not, you
know, as much as what the people can,
you know, choose. Um, people are still
looking at dollar, you know, as the
major currencies at the moment for fixed
income investment.
>> Tell us about the the strength of the
currency though. It seems like we've
seen a bit of a pushback from from the
strength of late but you know, why would
you suggest that maybe we we could see
more appreciation in the currency moving
forward?
>> Uh you mean the you
>> Renminbi.
>> Renminbi. Okay, the main reason would be
um next year they are going to focus on,
you know, a lot like consumptions.
Um they also in a trade surplus as well.
So, that could also lead to the
appreciation of the Renminbi. Our range
we are looking at would be around like
6.85 to 7.05, that particular range. I
mean, at the moment, you know, it's not
to deviate from the upper end, right?
7.05. But, I think slowly, gradually,
you know, the government may, you know,
um let it appreciate a bit. I think
seven definitely, you know, would be the
first point, yeah.
>> Okay. Uh in terms of just what I mean,
the PBOC has sort of buying bonds again.
I mean, how do you see that affecting
the curve or changing the curve in any
way? And and what would pace do you
think that they could actually buy?
>> I think everything they would just do it
quite gradually.
Um the curve itself, I think, you know,
it won't affect a lot in terms of
steepening. Um I think it would sort of
like, you know, stay in range bound. At
the end of the day, they won't really,
you know, a stable sort of also
government bond yield, um such that, you
know, it can helps a lot in terms of
financing and everything, yeah.
>> But, of course, you know, they also need
to build the long end of the curve,
where, you know, people would have
opportunity to invest into. You you
mentioned about we were just talking in
the break about Wanka about you know,
it might just be an idiosyncratic sort
of event here right now. Why why do you
think it won't be some sort of, you
know, spillover effects? Because you
know, there's some that have argued that
if it does default, it could be
something worse than what we saw with
Country Garden or with Evergrande, too.
>> Yeah. When we look at the Chinese
property market, um the restructuring or
like these kind of problem has been
going for on for 3 years, right? Um a
lot of them have already restructured,
um and you know, there's only a few
survivor at the moment. Um for this
particular case, we reckon that because
a lot of negative news have been built
into the credit market. We reckon, you
know, it would be a idiosyncratic risk.
We just don't particularly think that it
would impact a lot on the Asia credit
space in general or even the Chinese
credit. Because when you look at the
number of issuance this year, actually
picked up quite a bit on Chinese um
credit.
>> Yeah.
>> For example, SOE, some of the
corporates, some of the banks as well.
So, we overall we don't particularly
think that that would be a, you know,
big impact. Um people would just, you
know, put it as a single case. Okay.
>> And it's a it's great to have you. Happy
New Year. And it's a Nip Taira, head of
fixed income research
for Asia at UBP.
Uh technically when it comes to your
reference right here as well, it is
actually a weaker one compared to what
the estimates were uh calling for. 70602
against the dollar here. The estimate
was for a 70495
print. So, uh maybe there is more sense
of uh the the PBOC trying to at least uh
slow the appreciation that we've seen of
late after of course breaking below that
705 uh handle there. We'll have plenty
more coming up. This is Bloomberg.
All right. Pre market is looking like
this here right now. Slightly under
pressure, but yes, going against the
grain is this listing debut today.
Guoxuan Technology. We're up 89%. This
is a company that talks about, you know,
they do renewable energy products, smart
energy storage. Certainly is the
buzzword of this day. Uh given this
whole AI trade, it's certainly a stellar
debut there for Guoxuan. We'll have your
market open coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. We're counting down the open of
markets here in Hong Kong and in China.
And right now we are seeing slight
pressure when it comes to what the Hang
Seng is looking like right now, but
relatively speaking, the rest of the
region seems to be feeling a bit more of
the chill across the space as we look at
Taiwan, you look at Japan, you look at
Korea here today. They're all seeing
pretty deep sell-offs here. So, on the
face of it, uh Hong Kong looks to be a
little bit more resilient uh here right
now. A lot of that have to do with the
strength of the currency at 704. These
are fresh 2025 highs for your onshore
and offshore right here of late. So,
that dollar weakness certainly is
reinforcing that, obviously. And also
these Xi comments that we got in the
last 10 years talking about boosting
domestic demand did actually move some
of the markets here, whether it was the
currency, even some of these consumption
plays here as well. Uh at a time when
the AI trade is seeing a bit of
wobbliness
of late here. There you go. Your onshore
markets are online and we're seeing the
CSI 300 down about a fifth of 1% here
this morning. Uh watching copper. Uh a
little bit of pullback there. Of course,
we're watching very closely uh how gold
and silver are playing out here. Still
steady as we count down to that November
jobs report uh out of the US here today.
Uh but, you know, certainly there's
going to be a lot of focus on the whole
consumption plays given these Xi
comments that were released. In terms of
the timing, quite interestingly enough,
a day after that November activity data
where, you know, a lot of the economists
were saying was a pretty soft print
across the board. Retail sales, the
weakest print we saw since the pandemic,
right? So, uh this rebalancing of the
economy seems to be back in focus here
today. Let's see how the Hong Kong
markets are doing here. Looks like we're
down about half of 1% on your Hang Seng.
We're trading around that 25,500
level here. Uh keep in mind, of course,
we're tracking uh what the tech space is
doing and really kind of following
through what we saw with some of the
ADRs in the US session overnight with
Alibaba and Baidu were both down
substantially. We're down about 1% or
more for both of those stocks there. Uh
Tencent looking a little bit better,
Meituan as well. So, seems like Alibaba
uh the big one of the bigger drags here
today with HS Tech lower by about 6/10
of 1%. Not a whole lot of catalysts out
there really as we count down here. We
talked about this is the last full
trading day of week, I should say, of
2025.
Uh but really standing out is of course
a listing debut, Guala Schiaffino
Technologies. They talk about renewable
energy, uh energy storage and the like.
There you go. 93% pop there. Not too bad
on this Tuesday morning. It really go
against the grain with most of the
sectors here this morning. And we're
also watching when it comes to rare
earth stocks as well where there is some
sort of movement. Seems like light
slightly lower here. Uh we had did hear
from the EU about how China is starting
to grant some of these general licenses
when it comes to these critical
minerals. So, maybe signs that China is
trying to at least strike a good tone
with its allies here when it comes to
the issue of rare earths and trade. Uh
for more on these Chinese markets, let's
bring in Lantings too, our managing
editor for Asia equities. And really,
you know, we talk about the lack of
catalysts, Lantings, but it seems like
the market is still very much focused on
that weak data print that we got
yesterday.
>> Yeah, it is really about the growing
pessimism that we're seeing over the
Chinese equities again. And if you look
at milestones, we're looking at MSCI
China Index and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, both are very close
to entering a correction. And if you
look at the Hang Seng Tech Index, it's
almost at bear market level. So, we're
seeing a rapid deterioration in investor
sentiment over Chinese stocks. And if
you look at this month to date, uh
December, HSCEI is ranked at the second
worst performer in the world. As you
said, the weak data print definitely
played a role, but also there's a lack
of fresh stimulus. And there was a big
story yesterday about how China's
focusing more on the quality of growth.
So, that is sending a strong signal to
investors that the growth is is going to
be pretty much at 5% level. There is
going to be very limited upside
surprise. And second thing to watch out
for is really people are trying to lock
in the winners the profit from the
winners of this year. HSI still did well
year-to-date. I think we're still
looking at 23% gains or something like
that. And right now basically because of
the right lack of stimulus, people are
just cashing out.
>> Yeah, I mean you take a look at this
chart where we talked about what we're
seeing when it comes to H shares, right?
We know we're we're hanging on or at
least you know
by a thread when it comes to that
200-day moving average. And this as we
start to see, right? The macro data
start to worsen. And And really for much
of this year, Lanting, it seemed like
investors were willing to see through
the macro picture and really kind of
focus on these AI trades. Why do you
think that there's a change in that
dynamic now?
>> Yeah, I think right now because the data
has deteriorated. If you look at
yesterday's data dump, none of the data
point was good. A lot of people did
describe it as very ugly set of data.
So, that kind of ugliness really now is
grabbing attention. And of course with
banker's crisis, now property is again
at the front and center of people's
mind. And the recent action from the
central government shows that the
government support will be less or maybe
non-existent. So, overall that kind of
sentiment all of a sudden resurfaced for
investors. And plus the backdrop for
global equities is in AI enthusiasm is
fading. So, that's definitely not
helping.
>> Lanting, thank you, our managing editor
for Asia equities, Lanting too, joining
us out of Singapore. So, we talked
about, you know, against all those
uh there and the negative headlines and
the like, we're still seeing some pretty
you know, upbeat sort of listing debuts.
Like Grow Light & Shadow Technology is
certainly one of them, surging about 97%
here right now. Uh and it really has,
you know, against this backdrop of Hong
Kong and its world-beating IPO market
and is really still ending the year on a
strong note. The financial hub is set
for a flurry of deals that would make
December the busiest month for listings
since 2021.
For more on this, we're bringing in our
Bloomberg Equity Capital Markets
reporter, Dave Sebastian. So, tell us
what's happening in Hong Kong. I'm sure
you've been busy, too, Dave.
>> Exactly. It's been a very busy year for
everyone, for bankers and especially us
here at Bloomberg as well.
Um it's been a very busy year because uh
Hong Kong share sales have been raising
more than 73 billion dollars so far this
year and that basically marks the first
time in 12 years that Hong Kong is at
the top of Asia's fundraising market,
just below the US globally, really. And
uh that's been a result of these jumbo
deals like CK ATLS 5.3 billion-dollar uh
listing back in May. And that's that's
like the world's second largest listing
uh this year. And it's such a such uh in
like stark contrast compared to the
years past when Chinese stocks were in
the troughs. So, we're really seeing
this rebound this year and it's been
seen so far this month where these
companies are rushing to market to seize
this final window to list their shares
this year.
>> Yeah, and and how's the rest of Asia
looking, too?
>> The rest of Asia is also equally uh
frenetic because uh four of the world's
five top uh fundraising hubs are in
Asia. Um so, we've got Hong Kong, uh
mainland China, India, and Japan. Uh
these are the top uh
four four like four if it's a I'm like
it's four of the five world's um largest
uh markets for share sales so far this
year.
>> And and what are they expecting for next
year? Can we continue on this sort of
momentum?
>> So, the Hong Kong Exchange has said that
there are roughly 300 companies waiting
to list, and these include long dormant
IPOs like Syngenta Group, for example.
Uh and CK Hutchison's Watson, and these
deals could raise billions of dollars
next year. So, the pipeline is really
deep, but how those pan out next year,
that's subject to
uh the uh
stock market uh you know, like
uh like broadly you know, like just the
stock market generally as well as
uh other black swan events that we can't
really predict, but overall the mood is
still very, very positive, and bankers
are at least expecting the next 6 months
to be visible on their end.
>> Yeah. Um the bankers will be happy, I'm
guessing, for this year. Dave's going to
keep busy. Even in the face of being
busy, you you've been able to
still win some competitions, you know,
internally here in Bloomberg. It's
interesting. We had this uh
chart of a I guess what's it called?
Bloomberg charts competition that we
just had.
>> yes.
>> Um and you won. And it was on something
about the IPO market. Can you tell us a
bit more? We were firing up right now.
>> Sure. So, I made this chart back in um
August or July when we had our big take
about just how vibrant Hong Kong's
market has been. And uh this is just to
show that Hong Kong's IPO market as well
as stock market, you know, really has
been increasingly been buttressed by
mainland Chinese companies, and this has
been uh
evident through the deals that have come
to market this year, which were second
listings of big Chinese companies that
have been listed on shore like CATL and
also um others like Huawei, for example.
And these deals have raised billions of
dollars this year and led to a 4-year
high in the IPO market.
>> Dave,
congratulations on that, winning that uh
our contest here. And yeah, just just
let our viewers know, what did you win?
It was like a T-shirt.
>> It was a T-shirt with that chart on the
T-shirt. So, I
>> Okay, I expect you to come on air to
wear it next time. Dave Sebastian there,
equity capital markets reporter, Uh uh
on the latest on the IPO market here in
Hong Kong. Uh yeah, we talked about that
list just now of the upcoming ones in
the pipeline, right? There's another
company that's going to be listing in
Hong Kong, and we're talking about
HashKey Holdings here. Uh its shares
will debut on Wednesday. We'll be
hearing from the CEO himself, Michel Fon
right here on the China show. You can
catch that interview on the times on
your screen. This is Bloomberg.
All right, obviously a lot of focus when
it comes to rare earths here this
morning, where we're hearing from the
EU's top trade official saying that
China has started granting longer-term
licenses that allow European companies
to access critical minerals needed for
industries, including clean tech,
automakers, and defense contractors.
You're seeing a decline here across the
board from some of these rare earth
stocks here. Speaking exclusively to
Bloomberg, Maroš Šefčovič also discussed
ongoing negotiations with the US over
steel and aluminum tariffs.
>> What unites us is that we need and need
to take care of overcapacities, which
are destroying, you know, the the steel
production in US, but also in the EU.
And I explain again that
we adopted these very far-reaching
safeguards if it comes to the imports of
steel from the third countries to the
EU, which are kind of very
much reflecting the measures which US
has under undertaken several months ago.
And therefore, I suggested again, let's
go back to the idea where we can kind of
build this wrinkle friends, where we
would trade on MFN on
or zero levels, and we would have the
same, let's say, measures to take on the
global overcapacities.
The The The situation as it stands right
now is that
I
uh
sent to Secretary Raimondo
a list of of the codes where we believe
uh
that we can definitely lower the the
tariffs. I understand there is some
interest, especially from the
from the machinery machinery sector, but
we didn't proceed or haven't proceeded
to the very concrete negotiations on
these types. So, we're talking on the
level of teams. We are almost, I would
say, in permanent contact with my
counterparts, and I think this would be
good for both sides because if America
wants to reindustrialize, they need
machines. We produce the machines. We
are ready to send them the machines, but
of course we need to find a solution on
the derivatives.
>> And speaking of sort of rare earth
minerals, this obviously has been thrust
into the sort of the conversation very
very in a very sort of obvious way now
by the China. Are we getting closer? Is
Europe getting closer to getting a
general license from China as the United
States has?
>> Yes, I think that there I can I can say
that we are in a very close
contacts with Foreign Trade Minister
Wang Wentao and also his team. So, we
are communicating on different levels.
We had here the team from China
specializing on export controls like
couple of weeks ago, and I think we are
getting initial reports from our
industry that they are getting these
general licenses, but we need to have a
little bit more
granular
information uh
to evaluate the whole process. But, the
fact that this idea was
favorably received, that it seems that
we are getting first general licenses,
and also that
the Chinese side was receptive to our
arguments that the process as it was set
up in April
uh required too much of a let's say,
very intrusive information, too many
photographs, too much detail about the
supply chains, and and I think that
the general licensing could be could be
one of the solutions how to address this
issue.
>> European Commissioner for Trade Maroš
Šefčovič there speaking to Bloomberg's
Oliver Crook. Now, staying on trade, the
UK has also finalized a trade deal with
South Korea that London says will boost
exports to the Asian market. Now, this
agreement comes just weeks before an
earlier deal was set to expire. The UK
says the deal will grow its services
exports by more than $500 million
as firms get improved access to Korea's
financial market.
And turning to Hong Kong now, and
President Trump says he feels quote
badly about Jimmy Lai's conviction in
the financial hub. The former media
mogul was found guilty on Monday in a
landmark national security case.
>> I feel so badly.
I spoke to President Xi about it.
And
I asked to consider his release.
He's not well.
He's an older man and he's not well, so
I did put that request out. We'll see
what happens.
>> Let's bring in Alan Wong, our China
economy and government editor. He's with
us here right now to talk about the
response that we have seen from the
Western world from this case.
Is it likely going to become a bigger
topic when when Xi and Trump meet next
year?
>> That's really hard to assess, but we've
just heard from Trump saying that he
brought it up in a previous meeting with
President Xi.
But the manner in which it was brought
up, it was not Trump saying that he
demanded his release or explicitly
making it a central demand in any trade
negotiation with China.
He said that he just brought up the age
and health of Jimmy Lai. So, it's
unclear just how hard Trump would be
pushing it in his upcoming talks with
President Xi next year.
And um, also heard from the UK. I mean,
the UK summoned the Chinese ambassador
to complain about the the verdict and
again asked for his release. And then
China in response also protested this
because uh Beijing has long um objected
to any form of foreign intervention.
>> Mhm.
What comes next? I mean, obviously we we
have to talk about the sentencing for
Jimmy Lai, but
what what is next for Jimmy Lai?
>> So, next month in mid-January, uh the
court will hear the mitigation uh for
Jimmy Lai, which means that uh his
family and friends and people who
support him will show up in court to
talk about why he deserves a more
lenient sentence. So, sentencing might
come days or weeks after that. Um and um
because the
um Trump's visit to China is scheduled
for April, so um that should be that
sentencing should come before um
that meeting with Xi.
>> And I guess you know
is there any sort of message do you
think that this case is really sending
to the world
right now?
>> I think the outcome well, the the fact
that he was convicted of uh of the
offenses um wasn't surprising to many
people. Um
this is this case has been years in the
making and then the Chinese government
and uh the Hong Kong authorities in
different occasions have shown how much
they
um
they they dislike Jimmy Lai and and and
how they see him as a threat to national
security. And in the immediate
aftermath, you've also seen very strong
rhetoric from Chinese and Beijing uh and
Hong Kong authorities that Lai polluted
the minds of a generation young a
generation of young people and that he
uh he's seen as a uh as a traitor of uh
of the nation. So,
over the years we we've known that to be
the case and this this verdict just
confirmed that uh his actions are seen
as um offensive uh in the eyes of the
law as well.
>> Alan, thank you Alan Wong there, our
China economy and government editor. Uh
some other stories that we're turning to
now. President Trump is suing the BBC
for $5 billion over a misleading edit in
a documentary last year. Now, that gave
the impression he had made a direct call
for violence in a speech leading up to
the January 6th, 2021 attack on the US
Capitol. The BBC has since apologized
for the edit and had earlier rejected
Trump's demand for compensation.
Meanwhile, Trump is classifying fentanyl
as a weapon of mass destruction in his
latest push to ramp up pressure on Latin
America over drug trafficking. Trump
allies say such a move could open up
access to funds appropriated for
detecting and eliminating weapons of
mass destruction. The president says
he's also considering an executive order
for federal agencies to reclassify
marijuana as a less dangerous drug.
>> That's why today I'm taking one more
step to protect Americans from the
scourge of deadly fentanyl flooding into
our country.
With this historic executive order I
will sign today, we're formally
classifying fentanyl as a weapon of mass
destruction,
which is what it is.
>> Is it accurate that you were considering
an executive order to reclassify
marijuana under the
>> We are considering that, yeah.
>> Are you planning
>> Because
a lot of
people want to see it, the
reclassification, because it leads to
tremendous amounts of research that
can't be done unless you reclassify. So,
we are looking at that very strongly.
>> All right, let's take a look at markets
here. Right now, it seems like the
sell-off is accelerating here in Hong
Kong. We're seeing 1% losses here for
Hang Seng as well as MSCI China. What's
really kind of dragging that is the tech
space once again. We're down about 1 and
1/2%. HS Tech, now we're we're trading
around that 5,400
level. So, we'll see if we actually
break below that here today, but it
seems like right now continued downside
when it comes to the tech trade here
today. Asia Pacific is also down by 1%.
We continue to see their losses in
Japan. Kospi also seems like those
losses are accelerating now. We're down
close to 2% there in Seoul. This is
Bloomberg.
>> Some stories that we're following for
you today. Nasdaq is looking for a
regulatory approval to extend trading
hours on its stock venues to 23 hours
during the work week. According to a
filing, the firm asked the US Securities
and Exchange Commission for permission
to add an additional trading session.
This could take effect in the third
quarter of 2026 pending regulatory
approval.
PayPal has applied to become a bank in
the US looking to take advantage of the
Trump administration's openness to
fintech companies entering the banking
system. The payments firm says that if
approved, the PayPal bank would help
strengthen its small business lending
capabilities. And this comes after a
number of cryptocurrency firms including
Circle, Ripple, and Paxos recently
gained preliminary approval to become
banks.
JP Morgan and the US government are
backing Korea Zinc's planned smelter in
Tennessee, which will supply critical
minerals essential for chip making,
defense, and aerospace. Construction is
expected to begin next year with
commercial operations starting in 2029.
The deal is part of Washington's efforts
to establish domestic supply chains for
key minerals.
Bloomberg has learned that Japan's
Mitsubishi UFJ is nearing a deal to
acquire a minority stake in India's
Shriram Finance, which focuses on
vehicle loans. Now, sources say MUFG may
invest over 3.2 billion dollars for a
20% stake. Japan's largest banks are
investing in Indian financial
institutions betting on the country's
growth there. All right, we're checking
movers here this morning. Jiangxi Copper
is one that seems to be trading to the
upside here. City there with a massive
sort of revision in terms of the target
price target for that. Uh raising by 40%
uh to 47.9 yuan there. They're talking
about uh on the higher metal prices that
they're betting on, whether it's copper
and gold there. So, the stock is up 8/10
of 1% here right now. We're also
tracking when it comes to uh Changan
Auto, I believe. We'll see if that one
actually is uh there, but certainly
there was this uh approval from the
likes of Changan Auto, uh the likes of
BAIC getting these permits for L3, level
three, driverless cars. Uh Changan Auto
was moving quite substantially here.
There you go. We're up about close to 4%
there right now. So, this is the first
permits granted, according to CCTV, for
those level three driverless cars. Uh
you take a look at what the rest of the
markets are doing. Those are part of the
bright spots there. The rest of in terms
of the benchmarks are doing this here
right now. So, you are seeing onshore
markets uh are lower, but Hong Kong
seems to be seeing a deeper sell-off.
And the renminbi though, they're still
holding on, clinging on to that strength
there. Despite there was a pretty weaker
fix there from the PBOC here today, but
we're halting at least some of the
strength here today, but we're still at
a fresh 2025
high for the offshore rate here this
morning. And you take a look at what it
comes to the rest of the markets. Uh you
know, obviously we're still waiting for
this November US jobs data as well, what
that is, you know, warranted in terms of
how you trade this time, given the fact
that as there is a little bit of a lag,
but then nevertheless, risk assets are
on offer here today.
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the H-share half hour into the
session, and we are of course at session
lows here right now. We're down about 1
and 1/2% for your Asia market. Hang Seng
is down 1.3%
HS Tech, we talked about it as well. We
are getting closer to, of course, a
correction territory. We look at how the
MSCI China is looking like here this
morning. So, we'll definitely mark that.
But right now, we are seeing down 10%
from the highs that we saw in October
2nd for MSCI China. So, certainly it is
a down arrow story across the board, but
in China in particular, I think it
really has come down to what has been
the soft November activity data print
that we saw. You pair that with some of
the president's comments here about
really trying to boost domestic demand
and the timing of this release and
comments that date back from 10 years
ago. This whole rebalancing sort of
effort is certainly what has been the
key focus and perhaps that might mean
less stimulus for next year. That seems
to be what the market is clinging onto
here today. That's why you are seeing
more declines here. We're extending
further here into a second day as we
count down, of course, to 2025 in the
last full trading week for the year. And
this is how the rest of Asia is doing as
well. Of course, as we also have to
count down the November jobs report
coming out of the US as well. So, that's
where also seeing a losses about more
than 1% across the board in Japan, in
Korea, as well as in Taiwan here today.
So, the AI trade is on offer and that
certainly is leading to a lot of
questions about, you know, how much more
can the Fed can really cut next year.
That seems to be that lingering debate
that continues on here as well. And
whether, you know, the November jobs
report is going to be quite telling here
in terms of whether we can settle that
debate is certainly going to be the key
question. But dollar continues to be on
the weaker side of things. You take a
look at dollar-yen and that strength
continues here and we've broken below
that 155 level here for our dollar-yen
now. And Amoral was the one that talked
about that Tankan survey really kind of
solidified the case for the BOJ to hike
at the end of this week. So, that's
certainly is why the dollar-yen is at
these levels here. You know, we're
pretty much range bound when it comes to
the treasury market here. We're on hold
until we get some picture of what this
jobs report's going to look like here.
50,000 jobs gains is the estimate there
with a 4 and 1/2% employment rate. It
does suggest maybe the labor market is
deteriorating, but not falling off a
cliff. That might add to the narrative
that the the Fed cuts can continue for
2026.
Uh that certainly is going to be the
case here and what we're we're focusing
on and really taking center stage is
going to be that jobs report. I want to
bring in my co-anchor for this hour,
Annabelle Jurado. She's been so gracious
to step in from Sydney there. Belle, how
you doing?
>> Yeah, I'm going well. Nice to be here in
Sydney, of course, but uh market action
today, as you're saying, is really
dominated by
by these expectations around the Fed and
what we're going to get from that jobs
data later, as well. It's going to be an
interesting report because, of course,
you've got still the effects of the
government shutdown uh feeding through
into the October data in particular.
But, I mean, it really seems like that
case is set for easing and then
particularly as we get a new Fed chair
into next year, as well. But, let's take
a look at the markets now with our M
Live executive editor, Mark Cudmore,
joining us from Singapore. And and Mark,
I've almost just outlining there just
the the level of caution we're seeing
among investors today. Is that
warranted, do you think? It it seems
like that stage really isn't set for a
Santa Claus rally into year end.
>> Uh I definitely don't think we're going
to have a Santa Claus rally this year. I
think that the structural backdrop going
to 2026 is still very positive. We've
got the Fed easing uh even though the
economy is holding up okay. We've got an
administration determined to juice kind
of uh asset gains into the midterms.
We're still at the inflation stage of
the AI capex bubble. Uh earnings are
holding up okay. So, generally,
everything is pointing to 2026 being uh
a good year for stocks. Uh at least, you
know, the first half of the year, we
should see stocks make fresh records
globally. But, I don't think we're ready
to kind of get in that rally yet. This
is something, you know, I've talked
about probably for the last 6 weeks. I
think it's going to
remain difficult into the new year. And
part of that is that we're we're seeing
a drift higher uh in yields, and we've
still got the crypto fallout, which is
weighing on on retail sentiment at the
margin. It's weighing on that enthusiasm
to kind of really get invested when you
can see that the crypto sector is still
suffering. The digital asset treasury
companies are kind of are blowing up,
kind of we're slowly kind of imploding
at the at the margin. Um so, I think
it's going to be difficult for another
couple of weeks uh and probably in
mid-January we'll kind of get
enthusiastic on the on the bigger
structural backdrop.
>> How much do we need to worry as well
about the the the AI bubble story and
and the the anecdotes we continue to
get, for instance, Oracle needing to
push out the the construction timeline
for for the OpenAI data centers? Is that
still feeding into the narrative? Do you
think that AI bubble concern? Or do you
think, to your point, it's more shifted
to things like the crypto story or or or
Fed outlook for next year?
>> So, AI has been the most dominant theme
of this year, despite all the policies
that we've got out of the US
administration. It's actually been
really about the AI theme, which is why
we've seen global stocks continue to
kind of surge. Um and there's there's
definitely a massive AI bubble, and it
will, you know, at some point it'll
burst horribly. Uh but it's important to
identify what the bubble is. It's a it's
a capex bubble. Uh and that that leads
to to to some stock prices getting
overinflated, but it's not generally a
broader asset price bubble. It's a very
targeted in terms of the asset prices.
Um and that is what's driving the
economy. And the reason it's problematic
is that the the economy, a K-shaped
economy, it's been propped up not by the
US consumer as per normal, it's been
propped up by that capital expenditure
we're seeing from a very select group of
names within AI. So, at some point
that'll burst, we'll stop that capex,
the economy will suddenly hit a hard
stop, and and will hurt asset prices,
and certain asset prices will suffer
very very dramatically, but we don't
have a broad bubble in terms of asset
prices. Now, when will that bubble
burst? I I we're still a long way off.
The kind of the the way I've been
talking about for the last 6 months is
penciling in April next year. That's the
the first quarter earnings as the first
chance where we might see that bubble
burst. But it might be much further
again. It might be much later in 2026.
It might even be a 2027 story. So at the
moment we'll have to watch all the time
because it is the most important theme
in markets, the AI theme. And it is a it
is a capex bubble. It will end horribly
at some point. But I think we're still
in the inflation stage right now. It's
still the stage where it's going to prop
up asset prices, not be a risk.
>> Mark, it used to be that China was that
that sort of diversification play from
the AI trade globally.
Now I'm I'm hearing that less and less.
It seems like India seems have taken the
limelight from that because we're
starting to see some of the macro issues
in China really weighing
on this market. What's your take on it?
>> I actually prefer China's
diversification that.
I think, you know, if the if the AI
bubble burst at some point or when it
burst at some point, China will shut
suffer in the short term. But I think
that, you know, China's not doing the
the massive capex in this space. It's
not going to suffer as badly. It has the
software side. We are going to get a
real AI productivity boom. Again, this
is where you need to be very selective
where the bubble is. The the
productivity boom that comes through
from AI is real. It might be more subtle
and steady kind of coming through. China
will benefit from that. And it it's at
least the Hong Kong stock market is not
particularly expensive. China's stock
market is a little bit more expensive,
but the mainland shares. But in Hong
Kong it's not so expensive. You've got
the the software end users that can
benefit from from AI.
So sure, it's going to get hurt a little
bit when the AI capex bubble burst, but
it'll rebound very very powerfully.
Whereas India stock market is not as
over priced as it was maybe a year ago,
but it's still expensive. And it it will
still suffer from a US hit much more
more directly. And it'll kind of so
therefore I actually think China's a
much better diversifier for next year. I
think again, Hong Kong stocks will be an
outperformer in 2026.
>> Mark, great to have you. Mark Cranfield
there, MLIV Executive Editor, joining us
out of Singapore this morning. And now,
look at what's really dominating news
coverage is really what we've been
seeing in domestic media in China,
right? And it is, you know, centered
around the the the the economic picture
of China and maybe what 2026 might look
like. It could be more challenging just
given what we saw in that November
activity data. And now we're hearing it
from straight from the top, where
President Xi Jinping's call to boost
consumption is very much dominating
these headlines here a day after we got
that data dump. The party's journal,
this is Qiushi, and other state-run
papers have published speeches that Xi
made over the past decade on this very
subject. And she is quoted as saying
that boosting domestic demand
is a quote strategic move. Let's get
more now from our China correspondent,
Emma Lo, who's been parsing through all
these pages, right? 10 years of
commentary. Tell us about the timing of
this release, too.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. You look at the
market moves today and the data dump
that we got yesterday, and already there
are debates among investors and
economists. Some are now revising up
their expectations for stimulus in next
year, given how bad the November data
was.
And it's interesting that state media
then published a series of speeches from
2015 until 2025 of President Xi
highlighting the importance of boosting
domestic demand. And I think it shows
you, number one, that China is thinking
about this in a very, very long-term
perspective, right?
China thinks about things in 5-year,
10-year plans.
And he also talked about how
demand-side reforms are or demand-side
management is short-term. Supply side is
all about structural and long-term
stuff. And that's why China seems very
reluctant, because in one of his
speeches, he said boosting domestic
demand is not just about raising
government spending. It's really about,
you know, the the supply side reforms,
boosting private investment, optimizing
income distribution, growing the middle
class, stabilizing employment. And I
think that's the sort of long-term
policies we can expect, but not
necessarily, you know, things like
handouts or short-term boost to domestic
demand.
>> And some of these comments data is early
or as soon as what we saw in the work
economic work conference, right?
>> And he talked about, you know, not
chasing this reckless GDP expansion.
>> So, they're still focusing on really the
quality growth.
>> That's right. And he is particularly,
you know, saying something that is
pretty sharp and saying that China will
crack down on these vanity projects that
officials like to pursue that could look
good on their resumes. And he's saying
that an assessment of how well
state official is doing is not just
based on its how it's its ability to
grow short-term GDP. It's about how
solid of a foundation they're building
for long-term growth, for improving
people's people's livelihoods. And he
gave some examples of some wrong
wrongdoings, including exhibitions that
are seeing disorderly expansion,
including fake construction starts,
inflated statistics, development zones
that are unnecessarily large. And he
said China needs to embark on real
genuine growth that is not exaggerated.
And he noted the decline in investment
that we have been seeing and he's
telling is telling officials, you know,
stay calm, don't spend on wasteful
investment and that leads to projects
that would be abandoned as soon as
they're completed.
>> Min min, it's interesting as well this
reporting we're getting that that a a
rising number of Chinese economists, for
former PBOC officials as well, are
having what would typically be maybe
private conversations about where the
Chinese yuan should go. They're coming
into the public domain. Why is that
exactly? And and and what's going on?
>> Yeah, certainly it's quite a rare public
debate that is fueling speculation about
where exactly the yuan will go. And many
economists have been strengthening the
calls for a stronger yuan for a variety
of reasons. They're saying that number
one, it could reduce imported inflation.
It could raise purchasing power and
leading to this a recovery in domestic
demand. And number two, it could correct
the trade imbalance given the trade
supplies has ballooned up to over a
trillion dollars. And some are saying
that a stronger yuan can attract more
foreign direct investment. It could
promote the internationalization of the
yuan. It could help China escape this
middle-income trap. But at at the same
time, you flip the logic. A stronger
yuan would also mean if you have you
know, weaker imported inflation, it
would be harder to break the
deflationary streak, right? So some
economists are saying that no, China
should not strengthen the yuan. They
should end deflation first. And with
that, naturally, there'll be more demand
for the yuan. So it's a bit of a chicken
and egg here. But the the debate is
ongoing and we're seeing a split split
here among economists. Some are saying
they're expecting the yuan to head below
the seven handle. I think most
economists are expecting that. But
Morgan Stanley for one is expecting the
yuan to stay at the 7.05 handle 12
months from now, which is essentially
flat from where we are.
>> All right, Meimei. Thank you, Meimei Luo
there with a wrap-up of what we've been
seeing in terms of commentary and the
like when it comes to the economy and
the renminbi. Coming up, we're talking
China Huanca looks to sweeten the terms
of a bond delay request after its
initial proposal was rejected. We have
our Bloomberg Opinion columnist Shuli
Ren coming on. She thinks a default
might be better for the developer. We're
going to ask her why.
>> It's jobs day and Bloomberg has the
reports under surveillance.
>> How do we understand whether inflation
is the bigger problem or whether it's
the labor market?
>> That is a key question and it's going to
be challenging.
>> Today, Jonathan, Lisa, Annmarie, and
Mike will bring you crucial data and
expert analysis at terminal speed.
>> We've actually seen the most layoff
announcements since 2009.
>> The weakening is happening, but the
overall structure is pretty sound.
>> The November jobs report today on
Bloomberg.
>> We're taking a look at how the developer
Vanke is faring so far in the session.
We're actually seeing it moving to the
upside here, which is an interesting
move just given that broader sell-off
we're seeing in mainland equities today
and in Hong Kong, but we did actually
have that reporting out this is
sources-based, but what we're hearing
from different people is that they've
actually sweetened the terms of their
bond delay request looking to offer to
offer rather creditors better terms
essentially. So we've got that big
bondholder meeting of course coming up
later this week of on.
>> Yeah, so certainly we'll see if we get
any sort of update on whether you know,
these bondholders are okay with this
sweetened deal here as well, but our
Bloomberg opinion columnist Shirley Ren
says that it might not be the worst
outcome for creditors if it does
default. She joins us now. So we talked
about the sweeteners from this deal.
Um, you're saying it's actually better
if they actually default. Why?
>> That's right. So Vanke reportedly is
offering about 3% interest payment
within the next week. But what is 3% if
you're at risk of losing everything?
What we have we're seeing with the Vanke
is that there is a bit of a creditor on
creditor crime like that
you know, that the big creditors and the
shareholders are in the land grabbing
mode trying to seize whatever asset that
China Vanke still has. So if you're
outside bondholder, right? Like you're
not insiders like Shenzhen Metro. If you
wait and let Vanke to continue business
as usual, by the time the eventual
reckoning comes and they will come,
you'll have absolutely nothing left. So
that's why I think some bondholders
prefer that the Vanke go default now and
we go into a court-directed
orderly liquidation winding up process
and then maybe some bondholders can get
some money back.
>> Yeah, and you've really seen I guess
those changing perceptions around the
amount that that creditors are expecting
to be repaid reflected in the the price
of bonds because they've been on
certainly a bit of a roller coaster ride
over the course of this year. But but
what exactly has happened here and and
what would be the lessons to take away
from this as well?
>> So earlier in the year one goes dollar
bonds were trading at 30 cents on the
dollar. And then like Shenzhen Metro
which is one goes biggest shareholder
but only with 27% stake they came in to
give a series of unsecured shareholder
loans. And bond investors basically took
that as an unofficial government led
bailout except that if it's unofficial
that means there is no real bailout,
right? Like so what happened is that uh
one goes bonds were trading near par at
80 cents on a dollar throughout the year
until early November when Shenzhen Metro
came out and say okay, we want one go to
to pledge collaterals on our unsecured
shareholder loans. And people suddenly
realized that there is no state state
led bailout for for one go.
>> So wouldn't that trigger a more chilling
sort of impact on the rest of the
sector? I mean we have the like Christie
Bloomberg Intelligence has already
talked about the impact of this crisis
around one go could be even greater than
Evergrande or Country Garden because it
is quasi state backed.
>> Well, I I I would like to disagree with
Christie here. Like basically what we
are seeing is that a lot of the
developers that that could have gone
default already have gone bad, right?
And then the leftover it's like okay,
why would investors think that the one
go has the state backed
like state backing like Shenzhen
Shenzhen Metro only has 27% stake. I
just think that
a
like credit investors they need need to
change their perspective, right? And by
the way China's uh state-owned
enterprises have been going default for
at least a decade. Of course, they were
much smaller, but you should never
expect that the even a SOE will never go
default.
>> Surely, great piece there, Shirley Ren,
a Bloomberg Opinion columnist. Make sure
to check it out. Her column today, "It's
better that China Vanke defaults."
Now, that is on the terminal and
bloomberg.com. This is Bloomberg.
>> Taking you now to some live pictures of
Anthony Albanese, the Australian Prime
Minister, speaking at an event to to
discuss this event on the weekend, the
biggest shooting that we've seen, mass
shooting for the country in its history,
also the biggest terrorist attack ever.
But, let's uh take a listen now.
>> an immediate and lasting impact on many
Australians, but the Jewish community
here in Sydney and nationally, first
responders and people in Bondi
and Sydney, the impact will be
particularly acute.
The Australian government has made
significant investments in mental health
support, including expanding headspace
and the creation of Medicare mental
mental health centers. And I encourage
all Australians affected by this tragedy
to consider accessing the mental health
support, including through Beyond Blue
on 1300 22 46 36, Lifeline on 13 11 14,
Kids Helpline on 1800 55 1800.
Headspace for children and young people
and Medicare mental health centers are,
of course, available to support people
affected by this tragedy.
Uh yesterday, I convened uh National
Cabinet uh where National Cabinet again
uh spoke about the scourge of
anti-Semitism and the commitment to
stamp it out. We also agreed that
Premier Minns and Premier Cook as the
incoming chair of the council of
>> You've been listening to the Australian
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese there
addressing the public as we said
regarding this mass shooting that took
place on Sunday targeting Jews in
Sydney's Eastern suburbs. As I said, it
is the worst mass shooting we've seen
since 1996, the biggest terrorist
incident ever in the country and
certainly a lot of anger is really
simmering over this and and Anthony
Albanese's government is also really
grappling with the fallout.
>> Yeah, yesterday was talking about more
about the need for more gun control
reforms and now today maybe talking a
bit more about offering more aid to the
Jewish community given that there was a
you say backlash from the on the
government here on whether they were
able to stamp out the anti-Semitism
that's been
you know really been playing the the the
nation since really that's going to be
one key focus from the government moving
forward here in the face of this
tragedy. But yes, Anthony Albanese the
Prime Minister speaking will give you
the latest once we see more headlines
coming through. In the meantime, we've
got to check what's been going on in
Ukraine as well. US negotiators have
offered more security guarantees to Kyiv
as part of Washington's push to end the
war. Let's bring in our news desk's
managing editor Jill Disa, she's with us
here right now. So, there is seems to be
a bit more into the security guarantees.
Is is Ukraine likely going to like that?
>> So, at this point Ivana, I think there's
a couple of things to keep in mind with
this latest round of talks here. And
Trump of course saying that now we're
closer than ever to reaching a peace
deal between Russia and Ukraine. Of
course, we've heard that before. I think
a couple of really meaningful things
here. So, essentially the US is offering
Ukraine
article five like guarantees. So,
referring to sort of the NATO construct
there. I think it's telling though that
not only did you hear from one of
Zelenskyy's representatives that you
know they had some positive progress in
these talks but you also heard from some
of the other Europeans who were
obviously quite upset several weeks ago
when it appeared that the Trump
administration had been also negotiating
with the Russians. You heard from German
Chancellor Merz that they were actually
seeing some pretty significant progress
with this latest round of talks and
talking about these security guarantees.
Now of course it does seem you know
there's there's still some things before
you actually get over the finish line.
Trump did seem to suggest that as part
of this deal Ukraine would still be
expected to give up some fairly
significant territory in order to make
something happen but I do think the fact
that we've gotten this far with these
security guarantees we're getting some
initial positive impressions out of the
Ukrainians but also you know the other
Europeans I think that that does
indicate that maybe there's some room
for more progress here.
>> There is some progress. What what are
still the key sticking points though?
>> I mean really I think territorial
concerns is really what this comes down
to. Obviously Russia has you know for
many many months at this point indicated
that they're not willing to budge.
Zelensky on the other side also saying
that he he will not budge. We've heard
from Trump repeatedly including before
this but also you know during this
latest round of talks that there is some
expectation at least from some of those
you know US negotiators that Ukraine
would have to give up something but that
does still appear to be a sticking point
but again do you want to emphasize that
at least the initial comments that we're
getting here right now do indicate some
level of positive progress. Trump thinks
they're going to be able to get
something over the line by Christmas.
>> Jill.
>> Thank you Jill with that update there on
what these negotiations are going and
how they're faring right now. Let's take
a look at how Chinese markets are doing
because you're starting to see
some milestones have been hit here. So
correction territory we are on the
sights of that when it comes to MSCI
China we flagged that earlier. HSCI also
in the same sort of radar there. We are
also heading 10% down from the October
2nd close there. So we're watching very
closely that level. As far as what HS
Tech we're also watching of course,
those key levels as well. We could be
getting closer, uh, if not, um, 20% of
the October 2nd sort of highs here.
6,682
is sort of the level to watch here as
well. So, uh, that certainly is going to
be the case here, uh, as we continue on
and countdown to 2025. This is
Bloomberg.
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
head to that lunch break in a moment,
and I think we all need a breather here,
given the sell-off that we're seeing
across Asia here today. The K225 is down
by 1 and a quarter percent here. Of
course, we're tracking the yen gains as
well. We're
154.89 level, so breaking below that
150.50 155 handle, I should say. Uh, as
of course, BOJ is happy to just days
away, and it seems like it's all but
guaranteed that they're going to be
hiking rates here. I think that Tankan
survey, according to Nomura, uh, really
kind of means that Japan Inc. is ready
for that hike from the central bank
there. JGB is not doing a whole lot here
this morning, Bell.
>> Yeah, I like that you say that Asian
markets need a bit of a breather. Only
Japan's getting that for now, but we've
got to wait still a bit more time before
we can get Chinese markets also off to
their lunch break. But going into into
the end of the morning session,
certainly you're seeing quite a lot of
weakness across the board. But it is
very broad-based selling pressure in the
session today. You can see the tech
index is the main main drag there, off 1
and a half percent so far. Uh, it is as
well that that the countdown to to the
jobs data that's coming up later today.
The expectation we see uh, payrolls, or
nonfarm payrolls, coming in around that
50,000 level. We should see the
unemployment rate ticking up, so going
back to a level we haven't seen since
2021. And lots of questions around the
trajectory for the Fed, but also the
trajectory for for China going into next
year, given you've had that weaker
reading on the economic data, but still
not that sense of urgency around
stimulus.
>> Yeah, I have to correct myself earlier.
The level to watch when it comes to HS
Tech is now 5,346.
I was talking about the highs there.
That was back in October. So, that's
certainly one to watch. Correction
territory for HS Tech, MSCI China, and
the like here this morning. Let's talk a
little more about trade because, you
know, for now we're in this trade truce,
but certainly we've been tracking, of
course, the key metrics of whether
things are also looking fragile or
actually strengthening. Soybeans
certainly has been front and center when
we were talking about those talks in
Busan, right? And what we're hearing
when it when seeing when it comes to
soybean futures have slipped of late to
the lowest level in more than 6 weeks.
And that's really as traders continue to
watch for purchases from China to
fulfill its pledge to buy 12 million
tons of US exports. Now, Goldman Sachs,
meanwhile, expects China will need to
import fewer soybeans in the future with
a country now at an inflection point for
food security as well as
self-sufficiency. The author of that
report is Triada Cheats. She joins us
now. She's the bank's co-head of greater
China equity research in China basic
materials and agriculture analyst. I
want to show highlight this beautiful
sort of report that you've brought to me
today, Triada.
Your baby of sorts here. I'm really
China's food security and the progress
you think that they've made. I mean,
when it comes to soybeans though, I
think they are the most reliant out of
the whole kind of cohort of what you
cover, right? They're still about 90%
reliant on imports. How do you see that
changing and where are we in this all
sort of inflection point now you
mentioned?
>> Yes, I think soybean is a core of that
issues with the self-sufficiency. In
fact, if you look at all the food group,
self-sufficiency in China is 60%. In
fact, in the past two decades, this
number has been consecutively declining
and it simply by one drivers. That's the
protein consumption increase in China.
So, but obviously food security is a
national strategy and food
self-sufficiency
if it's not
equally, perhaps even more important
than the self-sufficiency of energy and
China's tech, semiconductor, etc. So, we
have been also tracking the progress of
China's effort in achieving the goal of
better self-sufficiency or improving
self-sufficiency. And I have to say I
started to cover the sector probably in
2018, but the past 3-4 years we've seen
really remarkable progress and that's
why we put out that report.
>> So, where are you seeing the most sort
of progress here? Where you know, things
are secure and where things a little bit
more not as secure?
>> I think overall it's a very holistic
approach if you look at that and it's
really coming from all the traditional
elements. Agriculture is a very
traditional sector, so you got the land,
you got the fertilizer, you have the
farming practice, and you have the
seeds, etc. Even how you produce animal
protein
and how much feed you use for every kilo
of pork and chicken. I think the
approach is really about productivity
and efficiency gain given there really
is not much you could do with the
limited land resources.
Um and I I have to say the difference in
the past 3-4 years is not only China's
talking about it, there's a guidance of
policy, but we're now seeing a set of
very defined solutions including lot of
the technical details in how to achieve
those ongoing productivity gain and that
has been really big changes. And on
soybean specifically
uh it's really about feed conversion
ratio, which is essentially your how
much feed you need to produce and that's
one of the major part of the soybean
demand management. The other one is the
content of soybean feed, what we call
the total mixed ratio. And that's
actually also being minimized by as much
as possible. And also on the demand
side, there's a promotion of high
quality protein. W- Which protein has
better protein conversion efficiency,
and which one actually use the least of
soybean.
>> Yeah, it's interesting because you hear
about this trade truce, right? And what
was part of that agreement was that
China was going to buy up a lot of
soybeans, right? I think they mentioned
about 12 million tons this year or 25
million annually for the next 3 years.
How do you think this this trade
discussions is going to square with what
you're talking about, this campaign for
self-sufficiency?
>> Well, I think we need to be very clear.
This is in This is building the capacity
of having self-sufficiency. Not
necessarily means that China's going to
reduce the imports one way or the other,
either from the US or the South South
America. By the way, this is very
concentrated itself is a very high
uncertainty as well. And I think worse
is where we are that, you know, if you
put everything together, you import 100
million tons right now, roughly. You're
going to increase actually additional
soybean actually demand because of
protein consumption maybe by another 20
million tons.
>> Eating more meat now, basically.
>> And then with all the effort we're
seeing is instead of soybean import
going up, we could actually move to
70-80 million tons because of all these
effort within China. But again, this is
having a capacity, not necessarily
reducing imports.
>> How then do you look at the investment
opportunities in this space? Cuz as you
said, there have been changes that have
been made at the upstream level, the
midstream, the downstream, all in that
effort to try and get the better yield.
>> I think in the upstream, in terms of
seeds, we're seeing the application of
bio tech seeds and a continued effort in
looking for better germ plasm. I think
essentially that's basically the
intrinsic yield improvement. I think
it's we're also seeing in terms of the
farming practice whether is the
agricultural machinery on its own or how
they apply what we call the fertigation
basically water irrigation and
fertilizer together. And a lot of this
is actually contributed by or enabled by
a very big program that we called
we called it big land program but
essentially in China is actually high
quality land. Basically it's building
the farming infrastructure actually for
80% of farmland in China and not only
this actually is yield enhancing on its
own but also
it it become more resistance to extreme
weathers. So so these are basically some
of the approaches from upstream
midstream all the way to the downstream
and in this report we have basically
layout in all these factors together in
the most optimistic case China could
actually have the capacity to go back to
self-sufficiency.
>> And and there specific national
champions on on this level as well
because
you know which which companies
essentially are directing this and is
that technology
rather being led domestically or is it
is it technology that's coming from
abroad and being applied domestically
instead?
>> It it's very domestic I would have say I
wouldn't say it's a completely you know
don't you know 100% China but obviously
you've seen areas where China develop
its own bio tech seeds and one of the
national leaders who actually we have
been covering is actually DBN DaBeiNong
and they actually holds more than 50% of
the market shares in the bio tech seeds
IP or varieties. So certainly is very
well positioned but broadly speaking,
this sector is very fragmented as it's
reflected where it is today in terms of
productivity. And we do expect sector
the bigger players to emerge now that a
lot of economics start to work on these
defined solutions. And I think in this
report this time we have also laid out
the initiation with a buy on First
Tractor, which is
a traditional tractor company now
benefiting from the up sizing large
scale tractors sales. And also
Yuntianhua, which is a fertilizer
company, phosphate fertilizer company,
which is actually is now benefiting from
the better usage and absorption of
fertilizer. And being very uniquely
integrated in upstream phosphate rock,
which is a raw material become more and
more structurally tight in our view
because of agriculture and because of
EV batteries.
>> Mhm. And Syngenta, I mean, they're
they're set to list here as well pretty
soon. Um in terms of the
self-sufficiency, you you said right now
it's about overall 60 some percent.
You're What what is How's this going to
play out then in terms of Yeah, where
are we going to be about 10 years from
now in that number now?
>> I I think if nothing gets done on its
own course, this number could go to 50.
>> Okay.
>> But with everything we just discussed,
we're looking at at least 80 if not 94%.
So, that's you know, based on all the
bottom up solutions that we put
together. And I think the difference
now, the visibility of achieving that
versus 3 years ago and when I wrote the
first of the self-sufficient report is a
lot higher.
>> Ah. Okay. Um
I I want to get your take on the other
basic materials that you cover as well
cuz given the run that we've seen in
copper, in gold prices, what what's your
outlook for these two for next year?
>> these are two commodities actually in
favor in in terms of Goldman Sachs
global commodities team where is the
team we like both of them. Um I think
you know, we have to say I've seen you
know, the the demand has not been very
impressive whether from China or
globally. However, I think it's really
the supply issue that the disruption
that we have been seeing that has
keeping being able to keeping the market
under very tight balance. And as this
morning, I think our colleague in
Singapore just issued upgrading copper
big price because the delay of section
232 US and which act will lead to even
deeper deficit in the X US market. So
this is and then what we observe in
China is one of the key question is are
there actually demand destruction given
the higher and higher prices. We've seen
patterns of purchasing changes, but I
think this round unlike some of the past
the cycles, we have actually not seen
destruction on the order books, which is
so far a good sign as as long as it's
slowly adding up. I think that's that
impact is being managed relatively well.
>> Why do you think there hasn't been
demand destruction yet?
>> I think it's the pace.
>> Okay.
>> The pace of the pricing. So if you if
you raise your price in a very short
period of time say by 20 30% you
typically get end user
in surprise because they would have
difficult time to pass it through. This
round we had a several I think up and
down but now it's sort of slowly adding
up and now we're seeing more acceptance
of downstream users on the current
copper price.
>> Fantastic. Trina, thank you so much.
Trina Chen there Goldman Sachs co-head
of greater China equity research and
China basic materials and agriculture
analyst as well. Yeah, we talked too
much about self-sufficiency and chips
and manufacturing. We don't talked about
food security enough, but there you go.
A great piece there. It didn't really
what it comes to the tech space. These
are some of the biggest losers of the
board of the HS tech here right now. So
SenseTime and Xpeng down some 4%. You're
also seeing big names like Alibaba also
selling off by 3% here this morning. Of
course, when we talk about we are in
correction territory at least getting
approaching that Uh, it comes to uh,
MSCI China, when it comes to HSCEI, HS
Tech, uh, we're all on bear market watch
as well. 5,346
is the level. So, we're just about 40
points away, or so. We're down about 2%
for the gauge here right now. Bell,
you're watching Korea Zinc.
>> Yeah, this is actually the biggest lag
out for the broader index in in Asia
today. So, you can see a very
significant drop there 17%. But,
essentially the the company yesterday
rose around 7% after it said that it
would be planning to build a a 7.4
billion dollar critical mineral smelter
in the US. This is a a plan that we know
is is going to the backing from the
likes of JP Morgan, uh, the US
government as well. But, there is a
management dispute or an ownership
dispute at the company that's been going
on for several months now, uh, between
its biggest shareholders, other partners
who have launched or had launched an
unsolicited takeover bid for the
company. So, that's certainly getting
perhaps in the way of this plan because
we know that that alliance uh, opposes
the the the plan and and is planning as
well to take legal action. So, we've got
that in a statement from the from uh,
from that came through late yesterday.
But, again, the market reaction you can
see huge drop there for Korea Zinc.
We'll have more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
We're watching some rare earth stocks
this morning. We are seeing these pretty
much under pressure across the board
here. It is a bit of a down hour story
that we see for Asian equities. But, we
are of course continuing to track what
we're getting in in terms of China's uh,
restrictions on exports of certain rare
earths as well. And and the EU on that
point, the EU's top trade official says
Beijing started granting longer term
licenses that allow European companies
to access critical minerals that are
needed for industries including clean
tech, automakers, and defense
contractors. Speaking exclusively to
Bloomberg, Maroš Šefčovič also discussed
ongoing negotiations with the US over
steel and aluminum tariffs.
>> What unites us is that we really need to
take care of overcapacities, which are
destroying, you know, the the steel
production in the US but also in the EU.
And I explain again that
we adopted these very far-reaching
safeguards if it comes to the imports of
steel from the third countries to the
EU, which are kind of very
much reflecting the measures which US
has under undertaken several months ago.
And therefore, I suggested again, let's
go back to the idea where we can kind of
build this ring of friends where we
would trade on MFN on
or zero levels, and we would have the
same, let's say, measures to take on the
global overcapacities.
The the the situation as it stands right
now is that
I
um sent to Secretary Lighthizer the
lists of of the codes where we believe
that we can definitely lower the the
tariffs. I understand there is some
interest especially from the
from the machinery machinery sector, but
we didn't proceed or haven't proceeded
yet to the very concrete negotiations on
this type. So, we're talking on the
level of teams. We are almost, I would
say, in permanent contact with my
counterparts, and I think this would be
good for both sides because if America
wants to reindustrialize, they need
machines. We produce the machines. We
are ready to send them the machines, but
of course, we need to find a solution on
the derivatives.
>> And speaking of sort of rare earth
minerals, this obviously has been thrust
into this sort of the conversation very
very in a very sort of obvious way now
by the China. Are we getting closer? Is
Europe getting closer to getting a
general license from China as the United
States has?
>> Yes, I think that there I can I can say
that we are in a very close
contacts with Foreign Trade Minister
Wang Wentao and also his team. So, we
are communicating on different levels.
We had here the team from China
specializing on export controls like a
couple of weeks ago. And I think we are
getting initial reports from our
industry that they are getting these
general licenses, but we need to have a
little bit more
granular
information to evaluate the whole
process. But, the fact that this idea
was
favorably received, that it seems that
we are getting first general licenses,
and also that
the Chinese side was receptive to our
arguments that the process as it was set
up in April
required too much of a It's a very
intrusive information, too many
photographs, too much detail about the
supply chains. And And I think that
the general licensing could be could be
one of the solutions how to address this
issue.
>> That was the European Commissioner for
Trade there speaking with Bloomberg's
Oliver Crooke. And if you're a
subscriber and you want to rewatch that
interview, you can via interactive TV
function. That's TV go. You can also
become part of the conversation by
sending us instant messages. So, do
check it out at TV go.
This is Bloomberg.
>> Ford will take a 19 and a half billion
dollars in charges tied to a sweeping
overhaul of its EV business after
struggling for years to make it
profitable. Speaking with Bloomberg, the
CEO Jim Farley says the automaker can
hold its ground against low-cost Chinese
rivals.
>> To make that business profitable, we
have to get to a BYD cost. And and so
this Skunk Works project called the
universal electric vehicle that we're
making in Kentucky, that is designed to
match the BYD cost in like a Mexico. And
we really believe we have that
delivered. We've sourced all the parts
now. We're testing prototypes. We're
starting to run the production line.
And so we have real confidence that we
can do that. And
and that's why we're telling people that
we think we'll be profitable.
We've worked hard for the last couple
years on this EV project. And we have
fully competitive cost with the Chinese.
Now it's our chance to bring a pickup
truck with that low-cost EV to
Americans. We think it's going to be a
big hit.
>> Hey, I I want to ask about the Chinese
because
while I love it when companies go back
to steel and V8s and stick shifts and
handbrakes,
obviously many people are betting the
future is on EVs, autonomous vehicles.
And then the Chinese are certainly
making real strides there.
As you as you make this pivot
back to sort of the classic American
pickup truck, what what will you do to
keep up with the Chinese as they
continue to make strides forward?
>> Make no you know make no mistake. Our
strategy as a company is to give people
choice. Part of that choice is to have
fully competitive cost with BYD
localized in North America. Matt, we are
going to have a fully competitive BYD EV
built here in America for Americans that
we believe are going to be profitable.
And to do that we had to massively
innovate, bring LFP to the United
States, you know, reduce the
manufacturing content of the vehicle
radically, redesign the whole assembly
process, engineer the vehicle with all
new suppliers. It's a whole different
approach on on the whole engineering in
that vehicle. We are here to compete
globally. We're not going to seed our
future to the Chinese and we're the most
American car company, but even for us as
the most American car company, we're a
global company and that UE V product is
the heart and soul of our
competitiveness for the future. But the
Chinese don't know the truck customers
like we do and we know customers want
E-revs and they want hybrids and they
want Raptors like you have. It's a
diversity of all that lineup that makes
sense for us to compete and win against
them.
>> That was the Ford CEO Jim Farley there
speaking with Bloomberg's Matt Miller
and taking a quick check on markets here
because it's really that story around
China stocks have gone and and what
we're seeing as well across broader
markets today because you've got the
Nikkei that's actually gone into its
lunch break here, but it was down 1.3%
going into into into the end of the
morning session here. Lots of focus as
well around the BOJ meeting coming up
later this week, but those key levels
we're tracking uh intraday you're
already in correction territory for the
MSCI China index for instance. You're
getting very close for the HSCEI HS Tech
as well just a few points away.
>> Yeah, it it may be just profit taking,
but really it comes down to what this
November jobs report is going to look
like coming out of the US later on
today. So maybe people are just not
making bold moves right now. Maybe just
take some chips off the table here given
just uh this is pretty high profile
economic data, right? And really could
dictate uh what the Fed discussion is
going to look like and whether they can
continue with rate cuts next year. That
still seems to be the lingering debate
here. And so yeah, you are seeing right
now a significant when it comes to just
it's a pullback across the region. Uh
everywhere you see when it comes to Cos
B Taipei uh ASX 200 looking a little bit
more resilient in the face of it right
now. US futures are lower by about half
of 1%. That's it for us here on the
China show insight with Haslinda Amin is
next. Stay with us.